resources/man/cpan6.1.adoc, before:

= CPAN6(1)
:toc:
:doctype: manpage

== NAME
cpan6 - a tool to assist in creating and sharing CPAN modules

== SYNOPSIS
*cpan6* [OPTIONS] COMMAND [ARGS]

== DESCRIPTION
The `cpan6` program is a Perl 6 module which is aimed to help developers in
creating new modules. It should be able to assist from the very start through
the end of actually publishing a module on PAUSE.

It can create the skeleton of a new module project, add more files later on
(and update your `META6.json` accordingly), package it up to a distributable
archive and upload the archive to PAUSE.

== COMMANDS
=== bootstrap config [ option ] [ value ]
Update a given configuration option. If no option is supplied, all
configuration options are presented in alphabetical order.

=== [ --dir=/usr/share/man ] bootstrap man [ page ]
Attempt to bootstrap the man pages into the given `--dir`. Optionally takes a
`page`, which will limit to attempt installation for the given page only.

=== bump [ patch | minor | major ]
Bumps the module's patch, minor or major version. If no bump type is supplied,
it will be prompted. If a `.git` repository is found, a commit and a tag will
be created as well.

=== [ --no-install ] depend < modules ... >
Add a dependency to one or more modules. Will attempt to install the module
locally as well, unless `--no-install` is supplied.

=== dist < paths ... >
Create a distribution from a module in a given path. Multiple paths can be
supplied to create multiple dists in one go. If no path is supplied, the
current directory will be used.

=== help
Shows a small overview of all possible commands and their arguments.

=== [ --no-git ] [ --no-travis ] new [ name ]
Create a new Perl 6 module skeleton. A name can be supplied as argument, but
will be prompted for if not supplied. Options for git and travis are available,
and enabled by default. To disable these, use `--no-git` or `--no-travis`,
respectively.

=== [ --no-bump ] push < paths ... >
Pushes one or more paths to PAUSE. This is a shorthand for `bump`, `dist` and
`upload`. The `bump` part can be skipped using `--no-bump`.

=== test
Run the default test script, `prove -e "perl6 -Ilib" t`.

=== touch bin <name>
Create a new runnable Perl 6 script in the `bin/` directory. A small skeleton
template is inserted into the new file. Additionally, the `META6.json` is
updated accordingly to contain the new file in its `provides` section.

=== touch class <class>
Create a new module file in the `lib/` directory. A skeleton for a class
structure is inserted in the new file, and directories are created needed to
place the file in the correct location. Additionally, the `META6.json` is
updated accordingly to contain the new module file in its `provides` section.

=== touch resource <resource>
Create a new resource file in the `resources/` directory. Directories are
created as needed. Additionally, the `META6.json` is updated accordingly to
contain the new resource in its `resources` section.

=== touch test <test>
Create a new test spec file in the `t/` directory. Directories are created as
needed.

=== touch unit <unit>
Create a new unit module file in the `lib/` directory. A skeleton for a unit
module structure is inserted in the new file, and directories are created
needed to place the file in the correct location. Additionally, the
`META6.json` is updated accordingly to contain the new module file in its
`provides` section.

=== [ --pause-id=<id> ] [ --pause-password=<password> ] upload < dists ... >
Uploads the given dists to PAUSE. A PAUSE ID and password for authentication
can be supplied using `--pause-id=<id>` and `--pause-password=<password>`
respectively. If not supplied, these will be read from your configuration. If
these are not set in the configuration, they will be prompted for.

== OPTIONS
=== --config-file
Use the specified config file as final config. Any settings given in the config
file specified by this option will override the settings given in other config
files. When used with `bootstrap config`, the changed configuration will be
written to the file specified by this option.

=== --force
Remove all sanity checks on a given command. This can have unwanted results,
hence you should only use this if you know what you're doing.  Using this
option can result in loss of data.

=== --no-user-config
Disable loading of user-set configuration options. Used mostly for testing.

=== --verbose
Make the given command more verbose. Mostly useful for finding out why
something is failing for you, or to help people assist you.

== EXAMPLES
=== cpan6 bootstrap man
Install the man pages bundled with `cpan6`.

=== cpan6 bootstrap config
Build a configuration file for `cpan6`. You will be prompted for all options
available. If you already have a configuration file, the options already
configured can be skipped by hitting enter.

=== cpan6 new My::Little::Module
Create a new module named `My::Little::Module`. The skeleton required for a
module will be created for you. The default prefix is `perl6-` for the
directory name, which will result in `perl6-my-little-module` as the resulting
directory.

=== cpan6 depend Config
Add the `Config` module as a dependency. This will add it to the `META6.json`
file and call `zef install Config`.

=== cpan6 touch class My::New::Class
Creates a new Perl 6 class, with a default skeleton. Directories will be
created as needed. The class will also be added to the `provides` section of
your `META6.json`.

=== cpan6 touch unit My::New::Unit
Creates a new Perl 6 unit module file, with a default skeleton. Directories
will be created as needed. The unit module will also be added to the `provides`
section of your `META6.json`.

=== cpan6 dist
Wraps the current directory into a `.tar.gz` distribution, and saves it to your
cpan6 dist folder. This is `~/.local/var/cpan6/dists` by default.

=== cpan6 upload `~/.local/var/cpan6/dists/My-Little-Module-0.1.0.tar.gz`
Uploads the given `.tar.gz` archive to PAUSE.

== BUGS
Bugs can be reported on the Github page of this project:
https://github.com/scriptkitties/perl6-App-Cpan6.

=== cpan6 bootstrap config
The config bootstrap currently inserts an additional `\` in front of the `@`
used in the email. This is in error, as the email address is already in double
quotes. This will have the result of the configuration file completely failing
to load. Removing the `\` solves the issue for now.

== AUTHOR
Originally written by Patrick Spek <p.spek@tyil.nl>.

== COPYRIGHT
This project is distributed under the terms of the GNU GPL version 3 or later.
Check the LICENSE file for more information.

// vim: ft=asciidoc et sw=4

Commit message:

Update the docs to include a reference to the clean command

resources/man/cpan6.1.adoc, after:

= CPAN6(1)
:toc:
:doctype: manpage

== NAME
cpan6 - a tool to assist in creating and sharing CPAN modules

== SYNOPSIS
*cpan6* [OPTIONS] COMMAND [ARGS]

== DESCRIPTION
The `cpan6` program is a Perl 6 module which is aimed to help developers in
creating new modules. It should be able to assist from the very start through
the end of actually publishing a module on PAUSE.

It can create the skeleton of a new module project, add more files later on
(and update your `META6.json` accordingly), package it up to a distributable
archive and upload the archive to PAUSE.

== COMMANDS
=== bootstrap config [ option ] [ value ]
Update a given configuration option. If no option is supplied, all
configuration options are presented in alphabetical order.

=== [ --dir=/usr/share/man ] bootstrap man [ page ]
Attempt to bootstrap the man pages into the given `--dir`. Optionally takes a
`page`, which will limit to attempt installation for the given page only.

=== bump [ patch | minor | major ]
Bumps the module's patch, minor or major version. If no bump type is supplied,
it will be prompted. If a `.git` repository is found, a commit and a tag will
be created as well.

=== [ --no-files ] [ --no-meta ] clean < path >
Clean up files not referenced in the `META6.json`, and remove entries from
`META6.json` which have no corresponding file. The `--no-files` flag will not
remove files without a corresponding entry in the `META6.json`, while the
`--no-meta` won't touch your `META6.json`.

=== [ --no-install ] depend < modules ... >
Add a dependency to one or more modules. Will attempt to install the module
locally as well, unless `--no-install` is supplied.

=== dist < paths ... >
Create a distribution from a module in a given path. Multiple paths can be
supplied to create multiple dists in one go. If no path is supplied, the
current directory will be used.

=== help
Shows a small overview of all possible commands and their arguments.

=== [ --no-git ] [ --no-travis ] new [ name ]
Create a new Perl 6 module skeleton. A name can be supplied as argument, but
will be prompted for if not supplied. Options for git and travis are available,
and enabled by default. To disable these, use `--no-git` or `--no-travis`,
respectively.

=== [ --no-bump ] push < paths ... >
Pushes one or more paths to PAUSE. This is a shorthand for `bump`, `dist` and
`upload`. The `bump` part can be skipped using `--no-bump`.

=== test
Run the default test script, `prove -e "perl6 -Ilib" t`.

=== touch bin <name>
Create a new runnable Perl 6 script in the `bin/` directory. A small skeleton
template is inserted into the new file. Additionally, the `META6.json` is
updated accordingly to contain the new file in its `provides` section.

=== touch class <class>
Create a new module file in the `lib/` directory. A skeleton for a class
structure is inserted in the new file, and directories are created needed to
place the file in the correct location. Additionally, the `META6.json` is
updated accordingly to contain the new module file in its `provides` section.

=== touch resource <resource>
Create a new resource file in the `resources/` directory. Directories are
created as needed. Additionally, the `META6.json` is updated accordingly to
contain the new resource in its `resources` section.

=== touch test <test>
Create a new test spec file in the `t/` directory. Directories are created as
needed.

=== touch unit <unit>
Create a new unit module file in the `lib/` directory. A skeleton for a unit
module structure is inserted in the new file, and directories are created
needed to place the file in the correct location. Additionally, the
`META6.json` is updated accordingly to contain the new module file in its
`provides` section.

=== [ --pause-id=<id> ] [ --pause-password=<password> ] upload < dists ... >
Uploads the given dists to PAUSE. A PAUSE ID and password for authentication
can be supplied using `--pause-id=<id>` and `--pause-password=<password>`
respectively. If not supplied, these will be read from your configuration. If
these are not set in the configuration, they will be prompted for.

== OPTIONS
=== --config-file
Use the specified config file as final config. Any settings given in the config
file specified by this option will override the settings given in other config
files. When used with `bootstrap config`, the changed configuration will be
written to the file specified by this option.

=== --force
Remove all sanity checks on a given command. This can have unwanted results,
hence you should only use this if you know what you're doing.  Using this
option can result in loss of data.

=== --no-user-config
Disable loading of user-set configuration options. Used mostly for testing.

=== --verbose
Make the given command more verbose. Mostly useful for finding out why
something is failing for you, or to help people assist you.

== EXAMPLES
=== cpan6 bootstrap man
Install the man pages bundled with `cpan6`.

=== cpan6 bootstrap config
Build a configuration file for `cpan6`. You will be prompted for all options
available. If you already have a configuration file, the options already
configured can be skipped by hitting enter.

=== cpan6 new My::Little::Module
Create a new module named `My::Little::Module`. The skeleton required for a
module will be created for you. The default prefix is `perl6-` for the
directory name, which will result in `perl6-my-little-module` as the resulting
directory.

=== cpan6 depend Config
Add the `Config` module as a dependency. This will add it to the `META6.json`
file and call `zef install Config`.

=== cpan6 touch class My::New::Class
Creates a new Perl 6 class, with a default skeleton. Directories will be
created as needed. The class will also be added to the `provides` section of
your `META6.json`.

=== cpan6 touch unit My::New::Unit
Creates a new Perl 6 unit module file, with a default skeleton. Directories
will be created as needed. The unit module will also be added to the `provides`
section of your `META6.json`.

=== cpan6 dist
Wraps the current directory into a `.tar.gz` distribution, and saves it to your
cpan6 dist folder. This is `~/.local/var/cpan6/dists` by default.

=== cpan6 upload `~/.local/var/cpan6/dists/My-Little-Module-0.1.0.tar.gz`
Uploads the given `.tar.gz` archive to PAUSE.

== BUGS
Bugs can be reported on the Github page of this project:
https://github.com/scriptkitties/perl6-App-Cpan6.

=== cpan6 bootstrap config
The config bootstrap currently inserts an additional `\` in front of the `@`
used in the email. This is in error, as the email address is already in double
quotes. This will have the result of the configuration file completely failing
to load. Removing the `\` solves the issue for now.

== AUTHOR
Originally written by Patrick Spek <p.spek@tyil.nl>.

== COPYRIGHT
This project is distributed under the terms of the GNU GPL version 3 or later.
Check the LICENSE file for more information.

// vim: ft=asciidoc et sw=4
